TITLE: Students Empowerment Policy «  Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.spit.ac.in/academics/students-empowerment-policy/

Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Empowered Autonomous Institute · Affiliated to Mumbai University
आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side
NAAC
NIRF
NBA
ARIIA
IIC
About
About S.P.I.T.
About Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Founders Message
Principal’s Message
Vision & Mission
Institutional Values
Code of Conduct
For Students
For Faculty
For Administrative & Technical Staff
Roles and Responsibilities
For Faculty
For Technical Staff
For Administrative Staff
Campus
Contact
Academics
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Exam
Results Analysis
Examination Manual
Contact
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
Best Practices
Curriculum
Academic Calendar
(TLE) Model
Academic Council Minutes
Resources
IT Infrastructure
Moodle
GPU Computing Facility
Library
DSpace
Administration
Governing Body
Deans
Finance Committee
Organogram
Academic Council
Faculty & Staff
IQAC
Constitution
MoM
Perspective Plan
Feedback
Institutional Distinctiveness
Committees
Students
Scholarships
Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation
Vidya Lakshmi Portal
Online Transcripts
Student Council
Student Activities
Oculus
Sports
Student Clubs
E-Cell
SPARK
IEEE
IIC
ACSES
NISP
IETE
Rotaract Club
Enactus
FACE
Achievements
SP-TBI
Alumni
Capacity Development Programme
Research
Preamble
IdeaLab
R&D Committee
Policy & Research Areas
Funded Projects
International Conferences
ICCICT-2021
ICCICT-2018
ICCICT-2015
ICCICT-2012
IEEE Colloquium
Students Technical Activities
Technical Paper Presentation
SPARK
Workshops
Current Events & Activities
Useful links
Publications Portal
Placements
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure & Reports
Students Empowerment Policy
Students are the most important pillars of the Institute. Holistic development of Students is the prime responsibility of the Institute. Their professional involvement in terms of participation in Conference, Competition, Hackathon, Sports, and Technology Training is extremely important. Financial support to students may increase their participation.
Following Seven policies are devised for empowerment for students.
1. Participation in Conferences, Seminars, Workshops, Exhibitions, Technical Festivals, etc.
(Organized by Centrally funded institutions, State funded institution, TEQIP funded Institution and other institutions in 200 bracket of ranking by NIRF)
Empowerment comes through Exposure
Students are encouraged to take part in:
Technical Festivals
and
Competitions
such as
Tech-Fest, Mind-Spark
, etc.
National Conferences
Seminars
Workshops
Students will greatly benefit from the numerous events and competitions that is offered to them. These experiences are necessary for an enriching engineering education.
Any UG/PG/PhD student of the institute can avail such assistance once in a year and maximum twice in his/her program of study.
Note:
This assistance shall include registration fees, expenses towards food/stay/travelling, etc. limited to
Rs. 2000 per student per year
or actual expenditure incurred whatsoever is low.
This assistance will be
provided only for those students
who are partaking in the events in the form of presenting papers, projects, giving a technical talk, attending a technical quiz, participating in technical contests, etc.
Students
need to apply in the prescribed format
along with the necessary documents viz.
participation certificate, receipts/tickets for the expenses
for this assistance after the event, duly recommended and
signed by the faculty coordinator/project guide/Supervisor
for the Dissertation/Research Guide to the HOD.
The HOD needs to forward the application to the Dean SAER with the comments. The Dean SAER will study the documents and decide the amount to be reimbursed.
2. Professional membership of Technical Societies such as IET, IEEE, CSI, ACM etc.
Empowerment comes through Collaboration
The Institute encourages maximum student participation in the activities of the professional societies in the technical field.
The Institute understands the importance of such participation and will assist the students for membership.
Membership in societies like IEEE & CSI allows students to be technically current, network with colleagues abroad and collaborate on research and projects with leading experts – all while taking advantage of specialized opportunities.
Discover which society, or societies, best match your technical interests and take advantage of membership benefits ranging from access to cutting-edge technical magazines and conference discounts to educational resources and worldwide networking opportunities.
Half the registration fees (limited to maximum
Rs. 1000/-
) will be reimbursed by the institute.
Note:
The student needs to first pay the necessary fees and then apply for the reimbursement.
Only one membership is permitted per year per student.
Student with recommendation from the HOD will apply to the Dean SAER for the approval.
3. Assistance for registering Patents, Copyrights, IPRs.
Empowerment comes through Innovation
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and Patents have become very important in today’s context for any higher education institute, in particular technical institutions.
Innovation is often necessary for students to adapt and overcome the challenges of change. It fosters growth, learning and inner strength.
Extensive projects give student opportunities to work on new ideas together. That is how startups are made.
Note:
An assistance of
75% of the actual cost
involved in registering the new idea and patent will be provided by the Institute.
The application in this regard be forwarded by the students through the Head of the Department and Dean SAER to the Dean R&D, which then will be evaluated by the Institute-level committee.
The committee will consist of 5 members across the institute covering broadly all domains of learning.
The committee will meet once every month and scrutinize these proposals scrupulously. Based on the merits of the proposal a decision will be taken whether to extend the financial support or not.
Patent shall be in the name of the institute. The student/students will be the Authors.
4. Participation in external Technical Training Programs.
Empowerment comes from Preparation
To be a successful engineer in the current atmosphere of rapid technological advancement, one must constantly learn and prepare themselves.
The Industry requires skilled engineers to be part of the said advancement. Centrally Funded Institutions like IITs and the Tech Industry regularly arrange valuable training programs for students who are willing.
Students should exploit such training programs offered to them to increase their knowledge base and be employable in a highly competitive and ever-changing market space.
Note:
A financial support limited to
50% of the registration fees or Rs. 5000/-
whatsoever is lower will be extended to every student once during the program of study.
Besides this 50% expenses towards travel and food/stay or
Rs. 500/- per day
whatsoever is lower, limited to maximum
Rs. 2500
will also be extended.
5. Assistance for enrollment for the MOOC courses.
Empowerment comes from accessibility
The Internet has paved the way for open learning platforms such as NPTEL, Coursera, edX, which offer great learning opportunities for today’s learners.
Students can learn from content beyond the syllabus, courses beyond structure, interdisciplinary courses from the best universities of the world, at their own pace.
Many institutions and Universities have started to formally accept the credits earned by students from open learning platform. IITs offer more than 400 courses on their NPTEL/SWAYAM platform. All students in the institute must register for these online courses and increase the bandwidth of the learning.
Note:
Students will be supported to the tune of
75% of actual registration fees or maximum Rs. 2,000/-
whichever is less for NPTEL / edX / Coursera / Audacity courses per year. This support shall be extended to maximum one course per semester per student.
6. Industrial Visits, Tours, Internships.
Empowerment comes from Exploration
The Institute strives hard for possible interactions with industries on all fronts.
AICTE strongly advocates the need of Industry Internships, Industry Visits, Internships, and Industry sponsored real-life projects, to enrich the learning experience.
Students must explore various domains and get hands-on experience to get an edge over others.
Note:
Departments are expected to arrange at least one industrial visit per year.
Similarly, a focused technical tour for the post graduate students will be arranged by every department every year.
For Industrial visits, financial support of
Rs. 500/- per day per student
will be extended for outstation industrial visits.
For long term industrial tours (more than 3 days), a support of
Rs. 2000/-
will be extended for every student once in every year towards the expenses incurred. (Travel, Food, Hotel etc.).
7. Assistance for Research-Flavored Projects and Dissertations
Empowerment comes from Performance
Research Projects, Dissertations give opportunity for students to innovate, design, fabricate, experiment on different ideas. The Field of Research is ever-growing, where great academic institutions and companies are extensively funding useful research.
Students need to be encouraged to work on industry relevant hardware projects than limiting themselves on simulations.
Note:
Interested students will write a brief proposal giving the background, problem statement, budget, and phases of the execution to the department.
Such proposals will be scrutinized thoroughly and recommended for support accordingly.
The Institute-level Committee under Dean R&D will take the decision for extending such support. A financial assistance of
70% of actual cost incurred
shall be reimbursed.
There will be no ceiling for this support. This support shall be extended to every PG dissertation or UG project (minimum group of 3 students).
There will be Institute-level Annual Exhibitions, demonstrating these supported projects, and an award in the form of certificate and medal will be given to the Best Project/Dissertation of the year.
IMPORTANT NOTE:
Every regular student can take benefit of one or any number of empowerment schemes provided that total support in one financial year does not exceed
Rs. 6000/- per student
. This ceiling excludes item no. 6 & 7.
Related Links
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Rules & Regulations
Home
|
AICTE
|
Mumbai University
|
DTE
|
Campus Virtual Tour
|
Tender
|
Careers
|
Contact
|
Terms & Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Refund/Cancellation Policy
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavans Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Munshi Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai 400 058