TITLE: Preamble «  Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.spit.ac.in/faculty-research/preamble/

Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Empowered Autonomous Institute · Affiliated to Mumbai University
आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side
NAAC
NIRF
NBA
ARIIA
IIC
About
About S.P.I.T.
About Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Founders Message
Principal’s Message
Vision & Mission
Institutional Values
Code of Conduct
For Students
For Faculty
For Administrative & Technical Staff
Roles and Responsibilities
For Faculty
For Technical Staff
For Administrative Staff
Campus
Contact
Academics
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Exam
Results Analysis
Examination Manual
Contact
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
Best Practices
Curriculum
Academic Calendar
(TLE) Model
Academic Council Minutes
Resources
IT Infrastructure
Moodle
GPU Computing Facility
Library
DSpace
Administration
Governing Body
Deans
Finance Committee
Organogram
Academic Council
Faculty & Staff
IQAC
Constitution
MoM
Perspective Plan
Feedback
Institutional Distinctiveness
Committees
Students
Scholarships
Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation
Vidya Lakshmi Portal
Online Transcripts
Student Council
Student Activities
Oculus
Sports
Student Clubs
E-Cell
SPARK
IEEE
IIC
ACSES
NISP
IETE
Rotaract Club
Enactus
FACE
Achievements
SP-TBI
Alumni
Capacity Development Programme
Research
Preamble
IdeaLab
R&D Committee
Policy & Research Areas
Funded Projects
International Conferences
ICCICT-2021
ICCICT-2018
ICCICT-2015
ICCICT-2012
IEEE Colloquium
Students Technical Activities
Technical Paper Presentation
SPARK
Workshops
Current Events & Activities
Useful links
Publications Portal
Placements
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure & Reports
Preamble
At Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Sardar Patel Institute of Technology, Research is an integral part of the academic activity carried within various undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The Research and Development (R&D) center facilitates various research programs by channelizing various research projects and consultancy works in various departments of the Institute. The Research activities include Academic research and funded research projects and patent in the Faculty of Engineering and Technology. The students and Staff are encouraged to innovate through quality research in emerging areas.
The advancement of laboratory is a key role of the Research and Development center of the institute. Research and Development center acts as a liaison between funding agencies and the Institute to handle sponsored research projects and industrial consultancy assignments. The main objective is to maintain the quality and breadth of its research enterprise, and particularly for its openness to multidisciplinary research.
The research philosophy is to progress from inter-departmental collaboration, to inter-institutional partnerships at national and international levels. The scope and scale of research has substantially evolved from the era of student theses to funded projects to interdisciplinary research programs at state and national level. The Centre facilitates interaction with external agencies at national and international level.
By looking at changing requirements of industry, the objective of Research and Development Cell is to ensure that we hold on to our position at the cutting edge of innovation by encouraging interdisciplinary research.
Vision
“To encourage interdisciplinary research and innovation leading to collaborative projects with public and private sectors that offers applied research.”
Mission
To inculcate research oriented approach to the future generation through research, scholarship, education, preservation, and excellent academic practice that can serve all sectors of society.
To carry out free exchange of ideas in an ethical, interdependent, and diverse community of faculty, students, and alumni.
Objectives
The office of the Dean for research and development is responsible for managing and developing all research activities at S.P.I.T. The main goal is to encourage and promote cutting-edge research based on the proven capabilities and expertise of our faculty and scholars. The primary role is to help facilitate strengthening of the Institute’s research capabilities; proactively promote basic research and monitor quality of research work done. Research committee headed by a Dean has proposed the frame work for up-scaling and enhancing the research activities at the Institute.
It includes some of the following strategies:
Identify and develop opportunities for the faculty to engage in research.
Define criteria and modalities for students to avail research opportunities.
Propose roundtables, conferences and working groups on a series of thematic areas central to the research work, publication of papers and reports of the students.
Modalities of accepting, reviewing, and benchmarking research work.
Establish linkages with institutions and universities in India and outside to secure resources to provide facilities to scholars.
Short Term Goals
Sending research proposals to funding agencies.
Increase the quality of publication in standard journals.
Conducting faculty and students development programs for cutting edge trends and Technologies
Long Term Goals
Getting grants from national international funding agencies for research projects.
Collaborating with agencies at national/ international levels for IPR and consultancy.
Getting sponsorships for faculty and students development programs.
Related Links
Publications Portal
Preamble
Policy & Research areas
Funded Projects
Students Technical Activities
Current Events & Activities
Useful links
International Conferences
R&D Committee
ICCICT
IIC
Home
|
AICTE
|
Mumbai University
|
DTE
|
Campus Virtual Tour
|
Tender
|
Careers
|
Contact
|
Terms & Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Refund/Cancellation Policy
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavans Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Munshi Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai 400 058