TITLE: Policies «  Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.spit.ac.in/faculty-research/policy-research-areas/policies/

Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Empowered Autonomous Institute · Affiliated to Mumbai University
आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side
NAAC
NIRF
NBA
ARIIA
IIC
About
About S.P.I.T.
About Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Founders Message
Principal’s Message
Vision & Mission
Institutional Values
Code of Conduct
For Students
For Faculty
For Administrative & Technical Staff
Roles and Responsibilities
For Faculty
For Technical Staff
For Administrative Staff
Campus
Contact
Academics
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Exam
Results Analysis
Examination Manual
Contact
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
Best Practices
Curriculum
Academic Calendar
(TLE) Model
Academic Council Minutes
Resources
IT Infrastructure
Moodle
GPU Computing Facility
Library
DSpace
Administration
Governing Body
Deans
Finance Committee
Organogram
Academic Council
Faculty & Staff
IQAC
Constitution
MoM
Perspective Plan
Feedback
Institutional Distinctiveness
Committees
Students
Scholarships
Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation
Vidya Lakshmi Portal
Online Transcripts
Student Council
Student Activities
Oculus
Sports
Student Clubs
E-Cell
SPARK
IEEE
IIC
ACSES
NISP
IETE
Rotaract Club
Enactus
FACE
Achievements
SP-TBI
Alumni
Capacity Development Programme
Research
Preamble
IdeaLab
R&D Committee
Policy & Research Areas
Funded Projects
International Conferences
ICCICT-2021
ICCICT-2018
ICCICT-2015
ICCICT-2012
IEEE Colloquium
Students Technical Activities
Technical Paper Presentation
SPARK
Workshops
Current Events & Activities
Useful links
Publications Portal
Placements
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure & Reports
Policies
R&D Policies and Regulations at S.P.I.T.
1.1
Consultancy Projects
Requests for consultancy services come to the Institute due to a variety of factors, such as (i) the professional status, reputation, and, expertise in niche areas, associated with specific individual faculty members (ii) and the Institutional reputation. The
roles
of the individual and the Institution are complementary and most often value addition arises from this. The individual provides the intellectual inputs and skills and harnesses his expertise and experience towards meeting the client’s requirements. The Institution, on the other hand, provides a diverse range of infrastructural facilities and services which facilitate consultancy and related activities. The effective costs of such facilities and services, reckoned in terms of major initial investments, periodic up gradation etc. cannot be underestimated.
More importantly, the Institutional reputation for excellence, expertise and ethical practices plays a substantial role in attracting consultancy opportunities. Although the roles of the individuals and the institution are closely intertwined, it needs to be emphasized that the Institution adds substantially to the stature of the individuals.
Finally, as all consultancy activity is to be channelled through the Institution and the Institution assumes some indirect responsibility for completion of the assignments to the satisfaction of the clients. Consequently the Institution has to necessarily look forward to a reasonable share of the revenues.
At S.P.I.T. we envisage following categories of consultancy projects:
Category I :
A consultancy is requested by an agency (client) from a particular Professor
The assignment to be carried out at client site
No infrastructural requirement from institute for the assignment
Consultant professor will be allowed to visit client site for completion of assignment for 52 days in a year not more than one day per week during running semester.
Category II
A consultancy is requested by an agency (client) from a particular Professor
The assignment to be carried out at Institute
Institute infrastructural required for the assignment
Category III
Consultancy is requested by an agency (client) from Institute
Institute assigns a consultant to complete the assignment
Institute infrastructural required for the assignment
Consultant team will be allowed to visit client site for completion of assignment for 52 days in a year not more than one day per week during running semester.
Income Sharing Proposal
(All the payment to be made to Institute and institute manages the sharing)
Category I
Total Income Less Service Tax = A
Less Other expenditure with prior approval maximum up 10% of A = B
Institute Share = 30% of B
Consultant’s Share = 70% of B
Category II
Total Income Less Service Tax = A
Overhead to Institute = 20% of A
less other expenditure with prior approval maximum up to 10% of A = B
Institute Share = 50% of B
Consultant’s Share = 50% of B
Category III
Total Income Less Service Tax = A
Overhead to Institute = 20% of A
less other expenditure with prior approval maximum up to 10% of A = B
Institute Share = 70% of B
Consultant’s Share = 30% of B
1.2 Policy for Qualification Improvement of the Faculty
Sponsored study leave under all categories (including QIP) for M.E. / Ph.D. has been discontinued from the year 2013-2014. However, faculty can avail study leave of six months during their M.E. / Ph.D. period subject to signing of the bond prescribed for the same.
For motivating faculty to pursue PhD would be taken up with the new Board of Governance (BoG) under autonomy.
1.3 Policy for Training Program/Seminar/Workshops/FDP
Proposed Scheme for disbursement of revenue generated by training programme/ short term courses.
Training Programs
Faculty members can conduct value added training program within the institute or at client site
All such training programms will be conducted before / after the institute working hours
Trainer team will be allowed to visit client site for completion of assignment for 52 days in a year not more than one day per week during running semester.
Income Sharing Proposal
Total Income Less Service Tax = A
Less other expenditure with prior approval maximum up to 10% of A = B
Institute Share = 50% of B
Trainer’s Team share= 50% of B = C
Training Team Share :
Sr. No.
Team Member Title
% Share
1
Coordinator
10% of C
Trainer
70 % of C
2
Lab Assistant
7 % of C
3
Class IV
3 % of C
4
Accounts
5 % of C
5
Principal
5 % of C
1.4 Policy regarding sponsorship for International Conferences
Recognizing the significance and importance of research work and its publication in peer reviewed journals both, at international and national levels, norms sponsorship for attending conferences abroad are being amended as under. The faculty member seeking sponsorship should also make efforts to get sponsorship from other bodies which offer sponsorship eg. UGC, AICTE etc.
In view of the above three slots have been defined as under.
Slot 1.
Once a faculty member publishes a paper in a peer reviewed international journal, he/she will be eligible for slot as defined below. He/She may utilize the sponsorship within a period of two years from the date of publication of the international journal paper.
Sponsorship will be under following heads:-
– Registration Fees
– Visa fee
– Conveyance – Economy fare by air
– Conveyance form residence to airport, int’l airport to hotel and similarly return journey.
– Up to US $ 80 per day (towards lodging and boarding – on days of the conference only) to be reimbursed on actuals.
– The paper should be presented at an International conference organized by a Professional body.
– The research work should not reflect the work leading to M.E., Ph. D. for which the faculty member were sponsored.
– The work may reflect research work for which the faculty member was guiding ME, Ph.D. dissertation work.
– The total expenses reimbursable would be
restricted to Rs.1,10,000
which would be inclusive of grants from other sources.
Slot 2.
Once a faculty member publishes a paper in a peer reviewed national journal, he/she will be eligible for Sponsorship to the extent of 75% of the total expenses under the following heads. He/She may utilize the sponsorship within a period of two years from the date of publication of the journal paper (national level).
– Registration Fees
– Visa fee
– Conveyance – Economy fare by air
– Conveyance from residence to airport int’l airport to hotel and on journey on return.
– Expensed toward stay up to US $ 80 per day (towards lodging and boarding) to be reimbursed on actuals.
– The paper should be presented at an International conference organized by a Professional body.
– The research work should not reflect the work leading to ME, Ph.D for which the faculty member was sponsored.
– The work may reflect research work for which the faculty member was guiding ME, Ph.D. dissertation work.
– The total expenses reimbursable would be
restricted to Rs.75,000
which would be inclusive of grants from other sources.
Slot 3.
If a faculty member does not qualify in slot 1 or 2 he/she may utilize sponsorship under this slot. The sponsorship may be utilized once in two years. Sponsorship will be under the following heads.
– Registration Fees
– Visa fee
– Conveyance – Economy fare by air
– Conveyance form residence to airport int’l airport to hotel and on journey on return.
– Expensed towards stay up to US $ 80 per day (towards lodging and boarding) to be reimbursed on actuals.
– The paper should be presented at an International conference organized by a Professional body.
– The research work should not reflect the work leading to ME, Ph.D for which the faculty member was sponsored.
– The work may reflect research work for which the faculty member was guiding ME, Ph.D. dissertation work.
– The total expenses reimbursable would be
restricted to Rs.55,000 (or Rs.28000 per year)
which would be inclusive of grants from other sources.
The faculty member should after returning from the conference give a presentation on his/her topic and about the visit in a faculty meeting.
In addition to the above mentioned sponsorship a faculty member is entitled for reimbursement for a national conference conducted by a professional body as per govt. norms every year.
A faculty member would also be entitled for sponsorship to a seminar/program of special interest to the department / college once in two years. The maximum reimbursement on different heads would be restricted to Rs.10,000.(or Rs.5,000 per year)
To get sponsorship for international conferences faculty member should also apply to other funding agencies like AICTE/UGC/DST before seeking sponsorship from college.
The faculty member should, before proceeding to the conference give a complete schedule of stay abroad, clearly indicating dates of the conference travel plan etc.
A committee will review the status of conference where the faculty is sponsored, relevance to the subject etc.
Related Links
Policies
Budget
Calendar
Research Areas
Home
|
AICTE
|
Mumbai University
|
DTE
|
Campus Virtual Tour
|
Tender
|
Careers
|
Contact
|
Terms & Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Refund/Cancellation Policy
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavans Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Munshi Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai 400 058