TITLE: Faculty Empowerment Policy «  Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.spit.ac.in/academics/faculty-empowerment-policy/

Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Empowered Autonomous Institute · Affiliated to Mumbai University
आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side
NAAC
NIRF
NBA
ARIIA
IIC
About
About S.P.I.T.
About Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's
Founders Message
Principal’s Message
Vision & Mission
Institutional Values
Code of Conduct
For Students
For Faculty
For Administrative & Technical Staff
Roles and Responsibilities
For Faculty
For Technical Staff
For Administrative Staff
Campus
Contact
Academics
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Exam
Results Analysis
Examination Manual
Contact
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
Best Practices
Curriculum
Academic Calendar
(TLE) Model
Academic Council Minutes
Resources
IT Infrastructure
Moodle
GPU Computing Facility
Library
DSpace
Administration
Governing Body
Deans
Finance Committee
Organogram
Academic Council
Faculty & Staff
IQAC
Constitution
MoM
Perspective Plan
Feedback
Institutional Distinctiveness
Committees
Students
Scholarships
Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation
Vidya Lakshmi Portal
Online Transcripts
Student Council
Student Activities
Oculus
Sports
Student Clubs
E-Cell
SPARK
IEEE
IIC
ACSES
NISP
IETE
Rotaract Club
Enactus
FACE
Achievements
SP-TBI
Alumni
Capacity Development Programme
Research
Preamble
IdeaLab
R&D Committee
Policy & Research Areas
Funded Projects
International Conferences
ICCICT-2021
ICCICT-2018
ICCICT-2015
ICCICT-2012
IEEE Colloquium
Students Technical Activities
Technical Paper Presentation
SPARK
Workshops
Current Events & Activities
Useful links
Publications Portal
Placements
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure & Reports
Faculty Empowerment Policy
Faculty is the most important pillars of an institute. While students spend their 4 years in the institute, by large, teacher spends 30-40 years with the institute. Empowerment of faculty in turn is an empowerment of the student. While investment on empowerment of a student is recurring, the investment on empowerment of faculty gives long term returns. Institutes need to ensure continuous value addition of each and every faculty member. To encourage this, following schemes / policies are framed for various activities under the broad umbrella of faculty empowerment. Following policies/schemes are devised for empowerment faculty members.
1. Participation in Conference / Seminar/ Workshop / Exhibition /Technical Festivals /FDP / Training programs /STTP etc.
Empowerment comes through external exposure:
Faculty members are encouraged to participate in the
quality conferences
arranged by institutions of repute, centrally funded institutions, state govt. funded institutions, TEQIP funded institutions and other institutions in the country preferably in the bracket of 200 ranks in the NIRF.
Faculty member
publishing/presenting paper
in the conference/workshop/ congress etc. will be reimbursed total expenditure towards this which include permissible
travel expenses, stay arrangement, permissible dearness allowance, and registration fees.
Every faculty will be supported
once in every year
for such activity.
Faculty members (who are
not authors
) but interested in attending these prestigious conferences, workshops, seminars etc. will also be supported to the limit of
75% of the actual expenses.
The principal may accord sanction to additional conference/event for a particular faculty as a token of appreciation towards
valuable contribution
of an individual to the institute.
Every faculty deputed for such external event, shall
submit a report
, and give a brief seminar in the department to the colleagues/students regarding the event/topic/paper.
2. Professional membership of Technical Societies such as IET, IEEE, IE(I), IETE, CSI, ACM, or any other professional society recommended by the respective HoD and Dean-Administration.
Empowerment comes through Collaboration:
Every faculty will be encouraged to be the member of the professional societies in the domain.
Institute will support 75% of the membership fees every year for every faculty with a maximum limit of Rs. 20000.
3. Assistance for registering patent/copy right/IPR.
Empowerment comes through Innovation:
The IPR and Patents have become very important in today’s context for any higher education institute, in particular the technical education institution.
Faculty need to be encouraged to innovate. Attempts be made to make them more innovative and creative.
Projects, capstone project, mini project, give student opportunities to work together, work on new ideas. It may lead to start up / entrepreneurship.
To encourage innovative works of the faculty, 100% financial support towards the expenses incurred in registering the new idea, patent will be provided by the institute.
The application in this regard be forwarded through the Head of the Department. The institute level R&D committee under the Dean Academic & Research will evaluate this within a week.
This committee will consist of 5 senior faculty across the institute covering broadly all domains of learning.
The committee will scrutinize these proposals scrupulously. Based on the merits of the proposal a decision will be taken whether to extend the financial support or not.
Financial support extended will be 100% of the total expenses (covering entire stages such as filing the patent, first examination, cross examination, response to the queries, all Govt fees and official charges of patent attorney, charges towards the certificate of award of the patent, etc). The patent will be property of the institute. It will be in the name of the institute. The faculty will be the authors for the patent.
If the patent is rejected, the 50% expenses will be returned by the faculty to the institute.
Only one patent per year per faculty will be supported.
4. Assistance for Industrial Visits/Internship/Tours.
Empowerment comes from Industrial exploration:
Faculty members are encouraged to visit industry, arrange industrial tours, do the industry internship to get real life flavors.
Faculty will be financially supported for these activities.
Every faculty will be supported once in every year for maximum 5 days.
The permissible travelling and dearness allowances and permissible expenses towards stay will be reimbursed at actual.
Faculty going for long duration industry internships will also be supported.
5. Support to purchase the books.
Empowerment comes from quality learning material:
Teacher is expected to refer good quality learning material.
Teacher is expected to refer several world class books while preparing for the course to be taught.
This is continuous process and demands the awareness of recent publications and literature.
To facilitate every teacher is encouraged to procure the books.
A financial support of actual amount spent on books limited to
Rs. 5000/- per year
will be extended to every faculty member.
6. Assistance for enrollment for the MOOC’s courses.
Empowerment comes from accessibility:
Open learning platform such as NPTEL, Coursera, edX offer great learning opportunity for today’s learners.
This is enriching education. New courses on cutting edge technology, and of interdisciplinary nature can be studied on these platforms from the best universities of the world.
The best teachers of these universities make such courses available to worldwide learners.
Anytime, anywhere and offered at the individual pace are very distinctive and attractive features of these courses.
Many reputed universities have started online specialization programs in emerging areas.
IITs offer more than 400 courses on NPTEL/SWAYAM platform. Many of these courses are live courses and offered semester to semester. IITs also take Procter examinations and offer certificates to the learners who have successfully completed the registered course.
All faculty members in the institute be encouraged to register for these courses and increase the bandwidth of the knowledge.
To facilitate this, every faculty will be supported with
100% of actual registration fees
for MOOC’s courses from NPTEL and
upto 90 %
for MOOCS from other platform.
Teachers are expected to register for the courses related to new technology, inter disciplinary courses, advance mathematics and statistics related courses, and other value addition courses.
Every teacher will be supported to register for one course per semester.
Institute may also felicitate such Teachers who have registered and completed the MOOC’s course successfully in the Academic Council to appreciate the efforts of the teachers towards knowledge up gradation.
7. Tuition fees support to faculty for higher education/additional qualification.
Empowerment comes from higher education:
Lifelong learning has become the essential attribute of today’s engineer. Disruption of technology is giving rise to several new fields.
To sustain in such changing time, faculty members will have to continuously learn.
To support faculty for enrolment to the higher education, tuition fees support will be extended to the faculty to the tune of
50% of the actual fees paid
for the relevant programs at institute of high repute such as IITs/IIITs/NITs.
Faulty requiring such support will make an application well in advance for such support.
Presently such support will be extended for additional ME/M.Tech./MS Degree or Ph.D. program for regular and permanent faculty members.
8. Paper publication in the international conference outside the country.
Empowerment comes from international exploration:
Faculty is encouraged to publish their quality work at the international conference of repute outside the country, present the paper, visit few universities nearby, and interact with domain experts.
The support is extended towards registration fees, travel, stay and other expenses.
For international event, such support will be limited to
Rs. 1,00,000/-
.
Faculty willing to publish a research paper at an international event outside the country should apply with the due recommendations of the HoD to Dean R&D.
Institute level committee will scrutinize the application and will make recommendation to the principal.
The faculty applying for this support, however, will make all possible attempts to fetch external support from various central and state funding agencies such as AICTE, SGBAU, UGC, DST, DoT, BARTI, SARTHI etc.
If some external partial support is obtained, institute will give additional support limited to
Rs. 1,00,000/-
.
Every faculty deputed for such external event, shall submit a report and give a open talk in the institute inviting all faculty/students.
Every faculty will be supported once in every 3 years for publishing paper at the international event outside the country.
9. Organization of STTP/FDP/Seminar/Workshop/Conference.
Empowerment comes from Support:
Faculty/Department interested in the organization of such event will make a detailed proposal to the Dean R&D.
The institute level committee will scrutinize the proposal and make its recommendations to the principal.
If the amount requested is below Rs.1,00,000/-, Principal will accord the sanction to this proposal.
Other proposals will be placed in the BoG meeting for sanction. However, the interested faculty should use this support as seed money and fetch external funding from various state and central funding agencies such as DST, AICTE, MU, UGC, and industries.
One event per department per year will be supported by the institute.
If there are more proposals, department will prioritize and recommend only one proposal in one semester.
10. Research Support to young faculty.
Empowerment comes from supporting seed money:
The new entrant faculty will be supported by a seed money of
Rs. 1,00,000/-
for the research project to begin/to continue the journey of research.
This will enable the young faculty to continue the research work of M.E/Ph.D after joining the institute.
The faculty will write a research proposal. It will be scrutinized by the institute level R&D committee.
The proposal will be recommended by the Dean R&D and approved by the principal.
Every faculty is eligible for this support only once in his career, and within first 5 years of his/her service.
Important Notes:
Every faculty will be supported for any number of activities indicated in 1-7 with an annual limit of
Rs. 50,000/- per faculty
.
Every faculty will be supported once in three years for the scheme no. 8.
Scheme 9 and 10 are applicable to department and young faculty resp.
Related Links
Students Empowerment Policy
Faculty Empowerment Policy
UG Programme
PG Programme
Ph.D. Programme
Departments
Rules & Regulations
Home
|
AICTE
|
Mumbai University
|
DTE
|
Campus Virtual Tour
|
Tender
|
Careers
|
Contact
|
Terms & Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Refund/Cancellation Policy
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavans Sardar Patel Institute of Technology
Munshi Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai 400 058